So first I wanted to run through some of
the basics of how digital audio works and
how audio works in general.
This is kind of a prerequisite to
understand some of the libraries and
some of the things we're
gonna be using with code,
is to understand how do we really
perceive this kind of audio and
what does it really mean for
sounds to be happening around us.
So when we talk about sound we're talking
about just waves through the air.
And by waves I mean changes in the air
pressure and changes in the air molecules.
So for example, let's say you're listening
to a speaker and the speaker is pumping.
It's going in and out in pumping, and
it's that pumping motion that creates this
propagation of air molecules through
the air that eventually hit our ears.
And it's sort of undulating and
changing in different ways,
in different frequencies.
Hitting our ears at different times and
things like that.
Another way to visualize this
is this little animation here.
On the left, we have a speaker which is
pumping in and out some sort of music.
You can imagine maybe you're at
a dance club or something and
it's a lot of these kick drums.
And on the right we have an arm and
mechanical arm that's
attached to that motion.
And every time it goes in,
it draws up every time it goes out,
it draws down, etc.
And what you end up with is a graph
that looks kind of like a sign wave,
just going up and
down in this smooth undulating motion.
And when the speaker's turned off,
there is no more motion there and
so it just draws a straight line in
the middle which means that it's silent.
That's kind of how these sound waves work.
And so when we say the word waveform
we're just talking about this kind
of graph almost this form and the shape of
the wave that we're trying to visualize.
But usually when we think of waveforms,
we think of it more like this.
A music track might be
a couple minutes long.
And so if we take the waveform of this
music track and we zoom it all the way so
that we can see the entire waveform,
it might look like this where you can
clearly see that there's some peaks and
some quiet parts and some loud parts and
some different sort of
frequencies going on there.
But at the end of the day even this music
track this long large waveform if you
zoom in close enough it's still just
like the earlier shapes that I was
showing you just a line that's
going up and down on some graph.
The way it works is that
the horizontal axis is time.
So maybe measured in seconds or
milliseconds or
however long your music is.
And the vertical axis is amplitude.
The amplitude refers to the size of
the wave the height of it, how loud it is.
So the higher this is,
the louder it'll be.
The closer it is to that straight
line that I was showing earlier,
than the quiet it'll be.
These values in amplitude always go
from positive one to negative one.
They don't go really higher or
lower than that everything is
normalized into that range.
And the time here I've just put 0 to 1
milliseconds but that's pretty arbitrary
it could be in between you know 50
milliseconds to 51 milliseconds or
it could be measured in nanoseconds or
some other measurement of time.
And again when the line is straight across
on the 0 amplitude it means we have total
silence we can't hear anything.
One other concept to understand here
is frequency we're going to be talking
about this when we start to visualize and
try and manipulate the audio.
But sound waves can be either high
frequency which means they change at
a very fast rate, or
they can be low frequency sounds,
which means they changing very slowly.
So that it's as if the speaker is
pumping very slowly or very quickly.
And those two differences will give
us a sort of different perception of
that audio.
So when sound is fluctuating and changing
very rapidly we have a high frequency
sound that's perceived by us
as something that's high pitch
like treble like cymbal crashes or
chimes or very high pitch sounds.
Whereas something that's
more like a sub bass,
like a kick drum or
even like a guitar pluck,
those are low frequency sounds that
are changing at a much slower rate.
And that's where we start
to be able to analyze and
start to be able to manipulate
this audio is just by tweaking or
looking at the frequency of
the sound that's coming in.